---
title: "Meta Android Developer Professional Certificate"
published: 2025-02-05
description: ''
image: "https://storage.googleapis.com/gweb-uniblog-publish-prod/images/HeroHomepage_2880x1200.width-1200.format-webp.webp"
tags: ["Certificate", "Meta", "Android", "Kotlin", "Java", "React Native"]
category: "Tech"
draft: false
lang: en
---

# Course 1: Introduction to Android Mobile Application Development
## Module 1:

### What is an Android OS?
Android is a Linux-based OS primarily designed for touch screen mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets. However, the operating system has evolved in recent years into a complete set of operating systems for various other devices, such as wearables, Chromebook laptops and smart TVs.

Some of the unique features and characteristics of the Android OS include:

Near-field communication (NFC)

Wi-Fi

Custom home screen

Widgets

App downloads

Custom ROMs

- Four top-level component classes: BroadcastReceiver, ContentProvider, Service and Activity

## Module 2:

### What is an emulator?

- An Emulator is a computer Program that imitates another device, replicate the experience of hardware or software 
- High computing Resources
- BlueStacks,...

### Android Virtual Device Manager (AVD Manager)
- Feature of Android Studio
- It lets you define the various features of a virtual device.

### Mobile CPU architecture
In order to develop and deploy apps for different mobile devices, the Central Processing Unit (CPU) architecture must be considered.

#### What is a CPU? 
- A CPU is like a translator between the software and the hardware of a device. It can take high-level software instructions and translate them into native machine language that a mobile phone can understand and use to perform specific operations. Ideally, you want a CPU that combines efficiency and power, without requiring excess resources, something that will be determined by its architecture. A CPU with great architecture provides mobile users with a seamless user experience without consuming significant battery resources.

#### What’s ARM, ARM64 and x86?
- As of now, there are three main CPU architectures used in most smartphones – ARM, ARM64 and x86. CPU types include:

- ARM: ARMv7 or armeabi

- ARM64: AArch64 or arm64

- x86: x86 or x86abi

- Of these three, ARM is the most common as it is properly optimized for battery use. 

- ARM64 is an evolution of the original ARM architecture that supports 64-bit processing for more powerful computing and it’s quickly becoming the standard in newer devices. 

- Then there’s x86, which is a bit more powerful than the ARM CPUs, but not quite as battery-friendly, so it’s the least commonly used of the three.

- Overall, ARM better embodies a mobile-first mentality, with simple instruction sets, efficiency and low power consumption as its major priorities. The fact that it requires fewer transistors and frees up that hardware space more than makes up for the use of RAM in a mobile device.

### Project Structure

- Activity: 
  - Entry point for interacting with the user, the Android app is form of multiple Activity or Screen
  - On 
- Layout: 
- Gradle: manage Android Project with a set of build configuration files
  - ./gradle clean 
  - ./grable build
  - ./gradle run
- Android Manifest: .xml file contain activity data
- Resouces folder:
  - Image, Color 


- Project file type: The most important project files and their contents include:

	- build/
		Contains files generated after a project build occurs

	- libs/
		Contains private and 3rd party libraries used within the app

	- src/
		Contains all code and resource files for the module in its subdirectories

	- androidTest/
		Contains code for testing features of the app that runs on an emulator or a physical device

	- test/
		Contains code used for unit testing code, with unit tests executed on the computer

	- main/
		Contains the Android code and resources shared by all build variants for testing and production deployments

	- AndroidManifest.xml
		Describes specific information about your app and each of its components such as Activity

	- java/
		Contains Java and Kotlin-related code files

	- gen/
		Contains the Java files generated by Android Studio, which are required for the app to build successfully (not displayed in the image above)

	- res/
		Contains application resources, such as image files, layout files for user interface designs, color files, dimension files and UI string for managing texts used across the app

	- assets/
		Contains files that should be compiled into an .apk file as-is (not displayed in the image above)

- Mipmap: ensures that your app renders high-quality images across different devices. 
- Layout folder: 

## Module 3: